PyRep is a python Reporting Engine.

It works like a classic band-based reporting tool (like Crystal Reports), but it's written in and for python.
PyRep is divided into four components:
  1. The core - a set of python classes that you use to build your report structure
  1. The parser - a parser for a (proprietary, by now) XML schema that you may use to build your report structure without writing python code
  1. The dataproducer - objects to produce data to feed the engine
  1. The renderer -  draws the report by cycling trough the dataset and following Report's directives. The dataset may be produced by the DataProducer or passed externally.

Each component is independent from each other, so that you can extend PyRep with:
  * more parsers, for example to read the JasperReport's (or other) report definition file
  * more dataproducer, for example to instruct the engine to retrieve data from an exotic data source
  * more renderers, to have different outputs, for example MS Word or Excel files

Some of PyRep's features (though currently most of them are unimplemented):
  * Allows creation of Reports through python objects or external XML files
  * Dataset may be generated by the engine itself, through a DataProducer object, or passed externally as any python iterable
  * Supports differet type of output: PDF, HTML, RTF, ODF, direct print. Currently, however, only PDF is supported with ReportLab library
  * Since the parser is independent from the core, many report definition formats may be implemented
  * Supports data grouping and subreports
  * Supports evaluation of python expression, with a subset of python's built-in functions. For example, if 'current' is the current dataset object, and it has an "amount" attribute (with type 'float'), you can do something like: ` round(current.amount * 1.2, 2) ` : the engine will output the 'current.amount' value increased by 20%, rounded to 2 decimals.
  * Supports report-managed variables and parameters (that you can pass to the report)
  * Supports expression extension with external modules
  * Supports data aggregation (sum, average, max, min, etc) directly in the report
  * A GUI editor is planned, so that you can define your reports more easily.
